Host Toolkit: Green New Deal Town Hall 
Joining together for the Green New Deal  
	  

	________________


  

Our movement has changed what’s possible around climate solutions in our country.  We put the Green New Deal on the map and our momentum is surging.  More than 100 Members of Congress have backed the Green New Deal, nearly all major Democratic Presidential hopefuls are onboard, and the Green New Deal is one of the top issues on the political agenda daily.


However, we know that the key to winning this fight isn’t in Washington DC.  It’s in our communities.  It’s in the hearts and minds of the American people and the resolve we show to making the Green New Deal a reality.  


In April and May 2019, we’re building a groundswell of support for the Green New Deal in every corner of this country. We’re calling on everyone to host a Green New Deal Town Hall in their community. We’ll gather in libraries, university campuses, churches, and living rooms to learn about the ambition, opportunity, and promise of a Green New Deal, hear from political and community leaders, and discuss the pathway to make the Green New Deal become reality. We’ll elevate the stories of people who stand to benefit from the Green New Deal and help everyone understand that the GND isn't about taking away cows or cars; it's about building things up and investing in the American people.

Together, alongside Sunrise’s national tour with 9 flagship events, we’re calling this effort the “Road to a Green New Deal” and will uplift stories from town halls and tour stops across the country. The national tour will go to Boston, Detroit, Des Moines, Paradise, CA, Los Angeles, San Antonio, New Orleans, Berea, KY, and Washington, DC. 


This is a step-by-step guide to host a Town Hall!


Contents: 
Step 1: Pick a Date, Location, & Register Your Event
Step 2: Build your team!
Step 3: Invite partner organizations to join!
Step 4: Get the word out!
Step 5: Rock the Event
Step 6: Follow Up






________________


First, THANK YOU for signing up to be a Green New Deal town hall host! We’re so grateful for your leadership and to be in this fight for our futures with you. The role of the town hall host is to anchor local event planning to make the magic happen. We recommend that you use this town hall planning template to complete all the details needed to rock your event. You don’t have to do this alone. Our team of coaches is here to support you to organize a town hall, and this document contains step-by-step guidance to plan your event! 


You should attend the Town Hall Crash Course webinar on Tuesday at 8pm EST to help point you towards the resources available to you in planning the event (much of the webinar will be focused on walking you through parts of this toolkit). The webinar will also dive into some essential recruitment strategies. 


You should also attend the 4-part webinar series on planning a Green New Deal Town Hall.
* Missed Part 1, ‘Building Alliances to Win The Green New Deal’? You can watch the recording here.
* Missed Part 2 on Recruitment? You can watch the recording here.
* Missed Part 3, continuing the conversation on ‘Building Alliances to Win The Green New Deal’? You can watch the recording here.
* Missed Part 4 on absorption and social media? You can watch the recording here.


Step 1: Pick a Date, Location, & Register Your Event!


Date: We recommend that you host your town hall between 4/22 (Earth Week) and the end of May, because that’s when our Town Hall Coaching and Volunteer Team will be able to offer you the most support. However, you’re welcome to host a town hall at any point in the year! 3
FYI: Members of Congress (MoC) are on recess and therefore home in their districts 4/15 - 4/26. If you want to invite your MoC to attend, you may want to pick a date in that window. 

Location: When picking a location, you want to factor in accessibility and scale. Where is a good place for people to gather in your community, a place that is efficient and accessible for people? And for size -- how many people do you think you can get at your town hall? Some venues we recommend are churches, public libraries, university venues, or even your living room!


IMPORTANT → Register your Event on the map: Once you have your date & location, register your town hall & put it on the national map, so we can help you get the word out! We strongly recommend watching this instructional video before you register your event. Then, follow the steps to ‘host’ an event on our national map here.
Want more help? Check out the template text and video for registering a Green New Deal Town Hall.


Step 2: Build your team!
Everything’s better with friends. Build a team to help anchor all the responsibilities of pulling off the townhall. Here’s some sample roles:


* Team Coordinator: (set & facilitate meetings, hold teammates accountable to their tasks) 
* Event logistics Lead: (Book a venue and manage event logistics -- parking, food, etc.)  
* Community Outreach Lead: (Invite people to join your town hall!) 
   * Phone-banking 
   * Social media outreach 
   * Flyering
* Partner Outreach Lead: (reach out to other organizations to co-sponsor your town hall) 
* Speaker Outreach Lead: (reach out to elected officials and community leaders to speak at the town hall) 
* Media lead: (reach out to local media to cover your town hall) 


Reminder: Fill in the Town Hall Planning Template every step of the way and share that document with your team!




Step 3: Invite partner organizations to join! 


Sunrise Principle 10: We stand with other movements for change. Stopping climate change requires winning and holding power at every level of government. This is a huge job and we can’t do it alone. When it makes sense, we work with other movements who share our values and are also working to win political power.
A lot of people are inspired by the vision of a Green New Deal. And history has shown us that the sweeping societal change we’re calling for with the Green New Deal can only be won with an alignment of political and social movements that establish the political ‘common sense,’ and advance a shared agenda for society. We know we can’t do this alone! Town Halls are an opportunity to build relationships and power with other organizations and movements who share our values and have interest in the Green New Deal.

Your top-priority partners should be groups who share our values and our Theory of Change. Look for these three traits:


1. They stand for equality, freedom, democracy, and/or justice. They are progressive, even if they don’t use that word.
2. They share our Theory of Change of building both people power - growing their organization to build a critical mass of public support for their issue - and political power - influencing politicians through making endorsements, pressuring candidates, and talking to voters.
3. They are interested in partnering with other groups to build people power and political power together.
4. Groups that are building the new future — sustainable agriculture, renewable energy, etc. These are groups who are already doing the work outlined in the Green New Deal and building the future we know is possible.  


Any group that meets these three conditions is very similar to Sunrise and highly worth building with, even if they organize a completely different constituency or work on non-environmental issues. 


Set a goal and begin reaching out to partner organizations to co-sponsor the Green New Deal Town Hall. Check out this guide, “Building Power With Partner Organizations,” for deeper guidance on building relationships and power with other organizations. We’ll be hosting 2 of webinars with national and local partners who are fighting alongside Sunrise for a Green New Deal to give more guidance on how to plan your town hall and work with partners. Register here to join our partnerships webinar series! Or watch the recording of Part 1 here and Part 2 here. 


In particular, the American Sustainable Business Council want to offer members of their network to speak from this perspective at your town halls! If you are interested, contact David Levine dlevine@asbcouncil.org or Valerie Forbai vforbai@asbcouncil.org 




Step 4: Get the word out! 

Get Your Friends and Family on Board: The first step is to get the people closest to you to join in! Start by asking your siblings, your friends and classmates to come to your town hall. Once they’re on board, they can ask their friends who can ask their friends - suddenly, you’ll have a full house!


Reach out to local press: By driving press coverage of our town halls, we can reach more people, influence and inform decision-makers, demonstrate public support, and share our stories. Identify one of your teammates to be the Media Lead, and then send them our guide on how to get local press to cover your town hall!
* Check out our Town Hall Press Action Kit


Social Media: Spread the word by posting about it on social media! Make a facebook event, share about it from your accounts and your friends’ accounts and your friends’ friends’ accounts!
* Sample Social Media graphics 
   * Download promotional graphics, banners, posters, etc


Text your Friends: Do you have friends that you don’t see on a daily basis? Maybe they go to a different school or live far away? Text them all! That’s right, TEXT ALL YOUR FRIENDS!


Poster the town! Get creative. Put posters in coffee shops, community boards, restaurants, anywhere! 
* Download a promotion poster (variety of sizes)


Reach out to Community Groups: Reach out to other groups in your area! Think: church youth groups, outdoor clubs, sports teams, high school environmental clubs, college clubs, sororities, local political groups… and many others! You can ask them to co-sponsor your town hall or just attend and help get the word out. 


Talk to people! MOST OF ALL - nothing is more effective than personal outreach. Talk to people in person, make a list of possible attendees and call through, and ask everyone to bring a friend with them! Canvass in a popular spot in your town; canvassing is fun, it’s effective, it helps you bring more people into our Movement, and it’s a wonderful opportunity to keep your finger on the pulse of what is important to the folks living in your community. 


DON’T FORGET: Remind people to show up! You should plan to send at least 1 email, and 1 round of texts, to people who have RSVPed to your event on the Action Network map. 
Learn how to edit your event, email and text RSVPs here.


Want to know more before getting the word out? Take a look at this in-depth guide to Petitioning and Canvassing! And here is a local Recruitment Toolkit, which goes more in-depth on how to actually recruit people to your event.


Here is Part 3 of the Road to a Green New Deal webinar series where two Sunrise organizers go into depth on recruitment strategies. 

Step 5: Plan the program 


Presentation Materials: Our team is very hard at work to produce presentation materials for your town halls. We’ll give you everything you need to run an informative and exciting event, word by word, and then you can choose how much you want to use of the presentation materials and how else you want to get creative to meet what is best for your community. Maybe you could feature a panel of speakers uplifting the leaders of your partner organizations? Maybe you invite your Member of Congress to speak? Maybe you can invite performers to join your event? You can get creative here. 

We’re putting together a multimedia presentation that guides participants through reflecting on the pain of living through the climate crisis, the fury at the fossil fuel billionaires and political elites who have failed us, the hope of finally having an opportunity to solve the crisis, and the resolve to see that opportunity all the way through to governing power. 


→ → → Check out this template program, which includes a detailed list of the videos & presentation materials our team is putting together for the Green New Deal town halls. 


Requesting a Sunrise representative to speak at your event. One request we've heard from Town Hall Hosts is to have a Sunrise representative speak at your town hall. We now have a volunteer team of youth leaders in Sunrise who will be able to do that!! This might look like them calling into your event via Google Hangouts or Zoom for a brief portion of your program. This volunteer team of Sunrise youth spokespeople is MIGHTY but small. It is not guaranteed that all requests for Sunrise Spokespeople will be able to be filled, but we will try our best.


An important note-- YOU are just as much of a "representative of Sunrise" as any of these Spokesperson volunteers. We want EVERYONE to feel empowered to speak to what brings them to the climate justice movement as part of this Movement. To apply to have a Sunrise spokesperson appear at your town hall via Zoom, fill out this request form and you’ll be contacted by our Sunrise Spokesperson coordinator, Garrett. 




There’s also an option to sell Sunrise and Green New Deal merch at your event. After you order from our web store, the vendor will ship the merchandise to your event.  Our web store is stocked with shirts, hats, and stickers for you to resell at your town hall.  There are coupon codes you can use to buy your merch at production cost: 
* LIVABLEFUTURE allows you buy t-shirts for $12.50
* GREENJOBS4ALL allows you to buy stickers for $0.24 each
* GOODJOBS4ALL allows you to buy the 10 pack of stickers for $2.40
* OURTIME2RISE allows you to buy beanies for $9.00
* YOUTHPOWER allows you to buy 5 panel hats for $19.25
*You cannot use these coupon codes in the same order, so you will have to purchase the shirts and stickers in separate transactions. 




Step 6: Rock the Event! 


It’s showtime! All your hard work has set you up for a successful Green New Deal Town Hall. 

Open up the Town Hall Event Planning Template and review the “Day-of Event Checklist.” Run through that ahead of the event and you’ll be ready to go! 

Important: Make sure all participants sign-in! We ask that you use this electronic sign-in form. Not only does it take less time to fill out than a paper sign in sheet, but it means we don’t have to do tedious data entry!  Take measures to prevent a sign-in bottleneck by having many computers/sign-in forms at every entry way of your venue (shoot for 1 computer for every 25 attendees). Assign people the role of greeter (shoot for 1 greeter/25 attendees).  To get sign-in data from your event, fill out this form and we’ll send it back to you in a spreadsheet. 
**If you do use paper sign-in sheets, please email them to data@sunrisemovement.org (they will enter the data into a google sheet, upload it into our database, and send the google sheet back to you). 


Our Communications Team has also compiled a list of talking points for your event. These can help you prepare for any questions that come up during your town hall. 




Step 7: Follow Up 
Wow! You just did an incredible thing. Before you celebrate, make sure you share your story.


DON’T FORGET TO: 
* Make at least one social media post (ideally on Twitter) using the hashtag #GreenNewDeal and tag @sunrisemvmt.  Include your best photo and be sure to tag any notable speakers or politicians!
* IMPORTANT: Send your five best photos and videos to Sunrise by emailing photo.video@sunrisemovement.org.‬ If there are no photos, did it even really happen?
* Follow up with everyone who attended! Thank them for their support and plug them in to upcoming meetings or volunteer opportunities. Fill out this form to request your sign-in data and we’ll send it back to you in a spreadsheet.